Update zkEVM - EVM vs. zkEVM equiv (#159)
0xPolygon/polygon-docs: docs/zkEVM/architecture/zknode/index.md

- State DB: Postgres SQL that can run on a separate instance.

Note that the JSON RPC is required to receive transactions. It's recommended that the JSON RPC runs on separated instances, and potentially more than one (depending on the load of the network). It's also recommended that the JSON RPC and the sequencer don't share the same executor instance, to make sure that the sequencer has exclusive access to an executor

### Aggregator

This role can be performed by anyone.

Required services and components:

- Synchronizer: single instance that can run on a separate instance.
- Executor & Merkletree: service that can run on a separate instance.
- State DB: Postgres SQL that can be run on a separate instance.
- Aggregator: single instance that can run on a separate instance.
- Prover: single instance that can run on a separate instance.
- Executor: single instance that can run on a separate instance.

It's recommended that the prover is run on a separate instance, as it has important hardware requirements. On the other hand, all the other components can run on a single instance.

******************* ***************************** 

> ### (new version) ... zkEVM vs EVM differences

Reviewer: I would say this is a separate doc for the Specification section.

This document provides a comprehensive list of differences between the Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM) and the Polygon Zero-Knowledge Ethereum Virtual Machine (zkEVM). The list includes supported EIPs, opcodes, and additional changes made to build the zkEVM.

### EVM-equivalence

> Polygon zkEVM aiming being a Type-2, is designed to be EVM-equivalent rather than being compatible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Polygon zkEVM aiming at being a Type-2, is designed to be EVM-equivalent rather than compatible.
```

The difference between EVM-compatibility and EVM-equivalence is that;

> - Solutions that are compatible, enable most of the existing applications to work, but sometimes with code changes. Additionally, compatibility may lead to the breaking of developer toolings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Solutions that are compatible enable most existing applications to work, but sometimes with code changes. Additionally, compatibility may lead to breaking developer tooling.
```

- Polygon zkEVM strives for EVM-equivalence which means most applications, tools, and infrastructure built on Ethereum can immediately port over to Polygon zkEVM, with limited to no changes needed. Things are designed to work 100% on day one. 

EVM-equivalence is critical to Polygon zkEVM for several reasons, including the following:

> 1. Development teams don't have to make changes to their code, and thus nullifies any chance to introduce security vulnerabilities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Development teams don't have to make changes to their code, and this removes the possibility of introducing security vulnerabilities.
```

> 2. No code changes, means no need for additional audits. This saves time and money. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. No code changes means no need for additional audits. This saves time and money. 
```

> 3. Polygon zkEVM benefits from the security and decentralization of Ethereum, since transactions are still finalizing on Ethereum.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Polygon zkEVM benefits from the security and decentralization of Ethereum, since transactions are still finalized on Ethereum.
```

Reviewer: "finalizing" sounds like we're still waiting for them to finalize..

4. EVM-equivalence allows Polygon zkEVM to benefit from the already vibrant and active Ethereum community.
5. It also allows for significant and quick dApp adoption, because applications built on Ethereum are automatically compatible.

Ultimately, Polygon zkEVM gives developers an almost identical UX to Ethereum, but with significantly improved scalability.

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

!!!info

>     No impact on developer experience

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    No impact on developer experience.
```

Reviewer: should this be a subheading?

> ​    Note that the following differences have no impact on the developer experience with the zkEVM as compared to the EVM. Gas optimization techniques, interacting with libraries like Web3.js and Ethers.js, and deploying contracts work seamlessly on the zkEVM without any overhead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
​    Note that the following differences have no impact on the developer experience with zkEVM when compared to EVM. Gas optimization techniques, interacting with libraries like Web3.js and Ethers.js, and deploying contracts work seamlessly on the zkEVM without any overhead.
```

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Note that the following differences have no impact on the developer experience with the zkEVM as compared to the EVM. 

- Gas optimization techniques, 
- Interacting with libraries, like Web3.js and Ethers.js, 
- Deploying contracts work seamlessly on the zkEVM without any overhead.

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Opcodes

Below is a list of the changes we have made with Opcodes in zKEVM in comparison to the EVM.

> - **SELFDESTRUCT** &rarr; removed and replaced by **SENDALL**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `SELFDESTRUCT` &rarr; removed and replaced by `SENDALL`.
```

Reviewer: prefer code format for code than bold

- **EXTCODEHASH** &rarr; returns the hash of the contract bytecode from the zkEVM state tree without checking if the account is empty.

- **DIFFICULTY** &rarr;  returns "0" instead of a random number as in the EVM.

- **BLOCKHASH** &rarr; returns all previous block hashes instead of just the last 256 blocks.

> **BLOCKHASH** is the state root at the end of a processable transaction and is stored on the system smart contract.

- **NUMBER** &rarr; returns the number of processable transactions.

> - **BASEFEE** &rarr; not supported. The zkEVM implements Berlin hardfork, but not the London hardfork.

Reviewer: code format instead of bold?

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Precompiled contracts

> Among Ethereum's precompiled contracts, the zkEVM currrently supports: **ecRecover** and **identity**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Among Ethereum's precompiled contracts, the zkEVM currrently supports: `ecRecover` and `identity`.
```

Reviewer: link to source code?

Other precompiled contracts have no effect on the zkEVM state tree and are treated as a `revert`, returning all gas to the previous context and setting the `success` flag to "0".

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Additions

> **zk-counters** &rarr; batch resources are available, linked to state-machine components, as a supplementary addition to gas computation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`zk-counters` batch resources are available and linked to state-machine components as a supplementary addition to gas computation.
```

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Other minor differences

- zkEVM doesn't clean storage when a contract is deployed at an address due to the zkEVM state tree specification.

> - **JUMPDEST** opcode is allowed in push bytes to avoid runtime bytecode analysis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `JUMPDEST` opcode is allowed in push bytes to avoid runtime bytecode analysis.
```

- The zkEVM implements [EIP-3541](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-3541) from the [London hardfork](https://ethereum.org/en/history/#london).

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - [EIP-2718](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-2718) which defines **Typed Transaction Envelope**, is not supported

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [EIP-2718](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-2718) which defines `Typed Transaction Envelope` is not supported.
```

Reviewer: should it be camel case?

> - [EIP-2930](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-2930), which defines the **Optional Access Lists** transaction type, is not supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [EIP-2930](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-2930), which defines the **Optional Access Lists** transaction type, is not supported.
```

Reviewer: I'm just wondering if this should be `OptionalAccessLists` transaction type. We are avoiding bold as per the style guide.

Reviewer: camel case?

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
